## Prometheus Integration

Prometheus is an open-source monitoring and alerting toolkit. The Wavefront Prometheus integration supports two different use cases:

-   The first setup is excellent for monitoring applications by scraping metrics HTTP endpoints. This integration installs and configures Telegraf to collect Prometheus format metrics. Telegraf is a light-weight server process capable of collecting, processing, aggregating, and sending metrics to a [Wavefront proxy](https://docs.wavefront.com/proxies.html).
-   The second integration is perfect for integrating with Prometheus servers, preserving your existing service discovery mechanism. This integration uses the Wavefront [Prometheus Storage Adapter](https://github.com/wavefrontHQ/prometheus-storage-adapter) which takes the data being sent to it and forwards it to a Wavefront proxy. Prometheus storage adapters can act as a “fork” and send data to a secondary location. The adapter is useful when you make data collected by Prometheus available in Wavefront.

To see a list of the metrics for this integration, select the integration from <https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/inputs>.

## Prometheus Setup

The Wavefront Prometheus integration has different use cases.

## Use-Case 1: Monitoring Applications

This use case explains how to monitor applications in fairly static environments where the list of metrics HTTP endpoints doesn’t change often. The static integration scrapes the Prometheus HTTP endpoints, converts the data to the Wavefront format, and sends the data into Wavefront.

### Step 1. Install the Telegraf Agent

This integration uses the Prometheus input plugin for Telegraf. If you’ve already installed Telegraf on your server(s), you can skip to Step 2.

Log in to your product instance and follow the instructions on the **Setup** tab to install Telegraf and a Wavefront proxy in your environment. If a proxy is already running in your environment, you can select that proxy and the Telegraf install command connects with that proxy. Sign up for a [free trial](https://tanzu.vmware.com/observability-trial) to check it out!

### Step 2. Configure the Prometheus Input Plugin

Create a file called prometheus.conf in /etc/telegraf/telegraf.d and enter the following snippet:

\# Read metrics from one or many prometheus clients

[[inputs.prometheus]]

\#\# An array of urls to scrape metrics from.

urls = ["http://localhost:9100/metrics"]

\#\# Metric version controls the mapping from Prometheus metrics into

\#\# Telegraf metrics. When using the prometheus_client output, use the same

\#\# value in both plugins to ensure metrics are round-tripped without

\#\# modification.

\#\#

\#\# example: metric_version = 1; deprecated in 1.13

\#\# metric_version = 2; recommended version

metric_version = 2

\#\# Use bearer token for authorization. ('bearer_token' takes priority)

\# bearer_token = "/path/to/bearer/token"

\#\# OR

\# bearer_token_string = "abc_123"

\#\# HTTP Basic Authentication username and password. ('bearer_token' and

\#\# 'bearer_token_string' take priority)

\# username = ""

\# password = ""

\#\# Specify timeout duration for slower prometheus clients (default is 3s)

\# response_timeout = "3s"

\#\# Optional TLS Config

\# tls_ca = /path/to/cafile

\# tls_cert = /path/to/certfile

\# tls_key = /path/to/keyfile

\#\# Use TLS but skip chain & host verification

\# insecure_skip_verify = false

Copy

Replace the urls property with your server address:

urls = ["http://[your_server_address]/metrics"]

Copy

### Step 3. Restart Telegraf

Run sudo service telegraf restart to restart Telegraf.
